Now let's talk about the process for creating a project definition document.
Okay, first off,
an executive or a senior management might have an idea for a new project,
hey, I got a new project.
Okay, so that's going to be version one,
the first iteration of the project definition,
I call PDD v1.
So PDD is the abbreviation, Project Definition Document version 1.
Your management gave you some direction,
an idea, you did some research, and you produced your first version.
Now you're going to report out.
What I mean by that is, you're going to share with your management,
here's what I've learned so far, and is the project going to be a go or a no go?
At that point, they can decide go or no go,
or hey, maybe do a little more research,
and it's very typical to do iterations of this document,
iterations of analysis, iterations of research prior to the go/no go.
So what I'm going to show here is version 2.
You did a little more research, you filled out the document even better,
maybe added some new categories, or went deeper in some existing categories,
and you reported out again for a go/no go.
And what I'm saying here then is,
take as many refined iterations as you need to have the
right amount of information so that senior management can
then decide to go or not to go.
So it is your job as a project manager to create a good document,
to create a good executive presentation back to management on
why it's important to move forward or not.
Now, in the next few slides,
we're going to actually go over all the details about
what's in a project definition document.
Now let's talk about how easy it is to design and build your
own project definition document template.
Okay, here are some key topics.
Now, I'm not going to read each one to you,
in the following slides,
we're going to go through each one in detail and make sure
you understand exactly what they mean.
So, this is just a starter list.
I'm sure you can come up with a dozen more in 10 minutes,
if so, you would add them into your document.
With each and every project, you're adding more topics, and also more subtopics.
For example, maybe under policies and standards,
your project has a requirement to be HIPAA compliant,
or maybe on the next project, it must follow an ISO standard.
As each project moves through the PDD process,
you'll be building up new subtopics as well,
always collecting and building up more and more topics
that will be added to your document.
Okay, now let's see how easy it is to just put one together.
Now one of my philosophies in this course,
as well as my other Pluralsight courses,
is to keep things really easy and simple.
We don't need to use complex tools or complex processes to
be very effective as a project manager.
Okay, just take out MS Word, create a document,
put on a title page, table of contents,
and for each of those headings you just saw,
put a heading one, heading two for each one of those,
maybe some subheadings would be heading level three,
something very simple that gets picked up by the table of contents,
and so it's very easy to read.
With each project,
you're going to enhance and improve this template of yours
with different topics and subtopics.
And lastly, prepare a very simple summary presentation,
say in PowerPoint,
for management for each of the PDD deliverables and
versions we talked about before,
so that way they can look at your PowerPoint as a summary of your
PDD document and decide whether to go or no go.
Either start the project, or maybe do another analysis version.
Okay, in the next slides,
I'll be giving you specific examples about each one of these topics so
you get a really good idea about what I'm looking for, for you to put into a project definition document.